[MUSIC]
>> Kevin Whinnery: So we're going to
go in here, into our configuration,
software configuration, and
our RDS connection URL.
And we're gonna create a postgreSQL
connection string, just like we have been.
For local development only, this is the
one that we're gonna use in production.
User name is gonna be
awsuser.awspassword and
that's going to be @ the URL for
that RDS instance that we just saw.
And then /todos is going to
be the name of the database.
We'll hit Apply, and
now we should have the necessary
environment configuration to
actually get this bad boy going.
So once this environment
update is complete.
We're gonna do the pen ultimate
step which is the EB deploy.
So we're ready to do that
here in just a minute.
With the environment updating,
we can't actually kick off
the deploy.
>> Kevin Whinnery: And
we can see that right now, the application
has not been successfully deployed yet,
so we can't see anything on our
last to be in stock instance.
>> Speaker 2: Couple questions coming in
here.
Where is the best place and safest place
to have elastic bean stock pull in
the AWS access key and secret access key?
>> Kevin Whinnery: When you go through
the EB and knit process.
It's gonna actually save your access
key in secret in a doc file
like in your home directory.
And that's generally speaking,
where everybody who
deploys to [INAUDIBLE] stock
on our team keeps it in a .aws
directory essentially,
in your home directory.
So that's where that goes.
>> Speaker 2: And the next question,
is it safe to put the DB username and
password in an ECT environment
variable for production?
>> Kevin Whinnery: If you if you've
configured your RDS instance
to not accept traffic from
the outside as we have like,
it's not possible to connect
to the database outside of
the of the current BPC.
In which case, it's not the end of
the world to have the connection string as
an environment variable.
But what we typically do
is like there's a way
to store secure credentials
in an S3 bucket and
then load them into
the system environment.
So rather than managing it through
the administrative interface directly,
you could pull in credential
information from an S3 bucket.
So that it's not accessible directly
through the through the console interface.
There's different ways to approach that.
And this is probably, again because
it's not publicly accessible,
it's not the end of the world.
But probably the best place to do it is
in an S3 bucket like in an XML file or
JSON file or something like that,
that read those in from your application.
All right, so now our environment
is actually in a decent state.
So now we've actually npm install,
I think we still need
to do grunt collect_static to
get everything ready to go.
Now, we can do an eb deploy,
>> Kevin Whinnery: And
that's going to package up,
all of the application logic in
our directory to a zip file.
It's gonna create a new application
version which we can see
through the administrative interface.
And ultimately,
it's gonna deploy that new version
of the application to our instances.
And what we saw before,
what they're gonna do once the once
the application version has been deployed
is run these commands that we set up.
So we have a npm prestart command,
which is going to run our
migrations against the database.
So if there is any available
migrations to run,
those will get run prior to
the application being deployed.
And then we have a start command
which will run our server process,
and start listening for inbound
connections on the configured HDP port.
So if all goes according to plan,
>> Kevin Whinnery: We
should have a new version to
look at here in a few minutes.
>> Kevin Whinnery: All right, so
I'm afraid to look,
>> Kevin Whinnery: But
that looks like suspiciously like a to do.
And it seems like we are successfully
running an application
in production has to be instructed you
get up there and add some good for you.
Good looking out.
So now we have our RDS instance connected
to all of our ACTU instances
in the same security group.
We have an elastic load balancer, which is
what this what this URL is pointing to.
It is accepting traffic
from the outside world, and
it is routing it to all the instances
in our elastic beanstalk configuration.
And our elastic bin stock again is talking
back and forth with an RDS database.
So that's all it takes to deploy
an application on elastic bin stock.
But the good part is once
you get all of this set up,
really all you're gonna be doing
going forward is eb deploy.
You're gonna be is zipping up
your application into an archive.
You're gonna be deploying a new version,
the new version will
get installed on all your instances and
you can sort of go about your business.
There are ways to do a lot of the things
that we did manually via API.
But I wanted to go through kind
of all of the different steps, so
you could understand
hopefully a little better.
What it's gonna take to actually get a new
environment provisioned
on Elastic Beanstalk.
Phil asks, do you recommend having
a staging environment before going
to a production environment on AWS?
Absolutely, you definitely
want to do that.
So right now, we only have one
environment that we can push to.
But it's possible to deploy
to multiple environments.
So it's definitely good to verify your
changes in the stage environment,
as we definitely always do
prior to go into production.
The other thing that actually kind
of nifty about Elastic Beanstalk
is you have the ability
to do blue green deploys.
So you can deploy your application
code to an environment,
which is essentially
the standby environment.
You can validate that everything
is good to go in that environment.
And then in the administrative
interface or via API,
you can actually change in
this public facing URL,
you can swap URLs with
another environment.
So you can with zero down time just
convert to another environment that's
already been deployed and
verified to work with like
directly through the interface
which is actually pretty rad.
We don't actually take advantage of that
cuz we don't have access to the console.
Because when you work in
a large organization,
things can be pretty locked down.
But it's something that we'd
like to explore doing cuz it's
definitely something that
can be done via API as well.
Going into the dashboard here,
let me just point
out a few bits in
the administrative interface for
Elastic Beanstalk that might be useful.
With all of your applications,
there's multiple potential versions of
the application that could be deployed.
So if I'm at this level looking
at todomvc-plusplus application.
I can see all the environments that
are running this application, and
I can also see all
the application versions.
So this is the current version of the
application that's deployed to production.
So you can see, it's currently
deployed to this environment.
And I can deploy past
versions of the application.
This is how you would do a rollback like
if something some stuff hit the fan.
You could roll back to a previous deployed
version of the of the application.
So there's a few things you can do
here in the environment configuration,
there's also a few bits
there worth calling out.
The log interface, you can actually
view the last 100 lines of
the logs directly within
the administrative interface.
But we also have this eb logs oops,
eb logs command
that we can run from
the command line interface.
Which will give us the last 100
lines of a couple of different logs.
It will give us the from
our no JS application and
it'll also give us like
the logs from the deployment
commands that are happening
on our ESTU instances.
So here, we can see the output of our var
migrations.
>> Kevin Whinnery: And
then we start to see the Morgan
logging that you guys
were nice enough to add into our
application earlier this morning.
So you can retrieve the logs in that way.
The other bits worth showing off
in the scaling configuration.
This is where you can start to toy with
the settings for your application.
We can sort of mandate that there's
never gonna be fewer than two instances,
two EC2 instances running
the application at any given time.
We can put an upper bound on the number
of instances that can be running the app,
can configure different
availability zones.
And we can also configure
different scaling triggers.
So we can say that when the network
bandwidth reaches a certain level
that is the trigger point at which we
can spin up another another instance.
So there's a lot a lot of
capability that we have there.
And then on the instances themselves,
this is where you can
actually configure the type of EC2
instance that will be running your code.
The default is a t2 micro, which is pretty
small, it has like one virtual core and
512 megs of memory I think and
it kind of goes goes up from there.
So you can configure the actual
machines that are running your
application based on your performance
requirements.
>> Kevin Whinnery: We've
already kind of looked into the software
configuration which is another bit.
We're also look at some of the health
check features that are present here
tomorrow, and we talk about like
monitoring this application environment.
There's a few other that you
can you can mess with for
updates and deployments by default.
A third of your fleet of instances
whatever that happens to be.
If it's just three,
it'll be just one of them.
But essentially,
when you're doing a deployment,
that's how many of those instances
will be taken out of the load balancer
to perform your application
update at a time.
And once that one instance has been
updated, it's gonna be put back in
the load balancer and
the other instances will be taken out.
And that instance will start accepting
the traffic from the load balancer.
And you can configure like how much
of your fleet you wanna take out and
update and
put back in to the load balancer there.
>> Kevin Whinnery: All right,
so that was a tremendous
pile of stuff to do.
But for anyone who wants to attempt it,
I will take you through the steps.
The documentation or the place to start,
that I put in the chat was
starting with the EB COI.
Then again, I think actually
bring up the 10,000 foot view
of this process here.
>> Kevin Whinnery: Within a region,
you'll create a user,
you'll download those user's credentials.
You're going to create
an Elastic Beanstalk environment from
the command line.
You'll create an RDS instance through
the administrative interface.
And you'll configure a security
group to allow incoming connections.
So there's a few pieces of that
process that are a little bit patsy.
So I'm happy to help you through any of
those individual pieces if you'd like to
give it a shot yourself.
But again, I think the benefit here
is that this is being recorded and
all of you can watch that ordeal
again at another time when you're
actually going through this and
clicking the buttons.
So there's definitely
a lot of pieces to set up.
But hopefully that gives you
a sense of what the moving
parts are during the process.